GLSL_QCOM_cooperative_matrix_conversion (#286)
KhronosGroup/GLSL: extensions/qcom/GLSL_QCOM_cooperative_matrix_conversion.txt

      where
        srcArr is an array variable with SrcTy as the element type and SrcLen as the length,
        dstArr is an array variable with DstTy as the element type and DstLen as the length,
        SrcTy and DstTy are one of int32_t, uint32_t, float32_t, and float16_t,
        sizeof(SrcTy) * SrcLen == sizeof(DstTy) * DstLen

      The function bit-casts the source array to the destination array.

      The following lists types that are compatible with each other for the conversion
      for certain size values. The sizes are in bytes.

        size == 256: uint32_t[64], int32_t[64], float32_t[64]
        size == 128: uint32_t[32], int32_t[32], float32_t[32], float16_t[64]
        size == 64 : uint32_t[16], int32_t[16], float32_t[16], float16_t[32]
        size == 32 : uint32_t[ 8], int32_t[ 8], float32_t[ 8], float16_t[16]

    At the end of 8.X, Cooperative Matrix Functions, add the following subarray extraction functions.

        void extractSubArrayQCOM(EltTy srcArr[SrcLen], int start_index, EltTy dstArr[DstLen]);

      EltTy must be one of uint32_t, int32_t, float32_t and float16_t.

      start_index must be non-negative, otherwise the behaviors are undefined.

>       (start_index + DstLen) must be no greater than SrcLen, otherwise the behaviors are undefined.

Author: Thanks !! Fixed.

      The function copies the DstLen values from srcArr starting from start_index
      to dstArr.  Equivalently, it is translated to

      for (i in [0, DstLen) ) dstArr[i] = srcArr[start_index + i];

    At the end of 8.X, Cooperative Matrix Functions, add the following cooperative conversion functions.

      The vectorToCoopmatQCOM function is used to construct a cooperative matrix cooperatively
      using arrays from invocations in a subgroup.

        void vectorToCoopmatQCOM(SrcEltTy vec[SrcVecLen], coopmat<DstEltTy, gl_ScopeSubgroup, NumRows, NumCols, CoopMatUse> cm);

      CoopMatUse is one of gl_MatrixUseA, gl_MatrixUseB, and gl_MatrixUseAccumulator.

      When CoopMatUse is gl_MatrixUseA,

        DstEltTy must be one of float32_t, float16_t, uint8_t, and int8_t.

        SrcEltTy must be either DstEltTy or uint32_t.

        SrcVecLen is 8 if SrcEltTy is uint32_t, and NumCols if SrcEltTy == DstEltTy.

>         NumRows must be gl_SubgroupSize or a specialization constant

Author: I would say the compiler (i.e., a vendors' SPV-to-HW compiler) needs to raise an error flag if it is specialized to a value that is not supported.

        from the i-th invocation (i.e., invocation with gl_SubgroupInvocationID == i) goes
        to the i-th row of the resulting matrix.

      When CoopMatUse is gl_MatrixUseB,

        DstEltTy must be one of float32_t, float16_t, uint8_t, and int8_t.

        SrcEltTy must be either DstEltTy or uint32_t.

        SrcVecLen is 8 if SrcEltTy is uint32_t, and NumRows if SrcEltTy == DstEltTy.

        NumRows is 8, 16, 32, and 32 for float32_t, float16_t, int8_t, and uint8_t,
        respectively. Or it is a specialization constant.

        NumCols must be one of gl_SubgroupSize, gl_SubgroupSize/2, or gl_SubgroupSize/4,
        or a specialization constant.

        The function constructs a cooperative matrix cooperatively in such a way that 'vec'
        from the i-th invocation (i.e., invocation with gl_SubgroupInvocationID == i) goes
        to the i-th column of the resulting matrix.

        When NumCols is smaller than gl_SubgroupSize, the source arrays from invocations
        [NumCols .. gl_SubgroupSize) are ignored. For example, given gl_SubgroupSize
        == 64, if NumCols == 32, the source arrays from invocations [32 .. 64) are ignored,

>         and if NumCols == 16, those from invocations [16 .. 64) are ignored.

Author: @gnl21 Elina and I agreed with you that making them symmetric is better. I uploaded the revised one.

      When CoopMatUse is gl_MatrixUseAccumulator,

        DstEltTy must be one of uint32_t, int32_t, float32_t, float16_t.

        SrcEltTy must be either DstEltTy or uint32_t.

>         SrcVecLen is NumCols/2 if SrcEltTy is uint32_t and DstEltTy is float16_t and NumCols for all other cases.

Author: done. thanks.

        NumRows must be gl_SubgroupSize or a specialization constant

>         NumCols is one of gl_SubgroupSize, gl_SubgroupSize/2, or gl_SubgroupSize/4,

Author: done. thanks.

        or a specialization constant.

        The function constructs a cooperative matrix cooperatively in such a way that 'vec'
        from the i-th invocation (i.e., invocation with gl_SubgroupInvocationID == i) goes
        to the i-th row of the resulting matrix.

    At the end of 8.X, Cooperative Matrix Functions, add the following cooperative conversion functions.

      The coopmatToVectorQCOM function is used to concurrently extract rows or columns of
      a cooperative matrix into the invocations in a subgroup.

        void coopmatToVectorQCOM(coopmat<SrcEltTy, gl_ScopeSubgroup, NumRows, NumCols, CoopMatUse> cm, DstEltTy vec[DstVecLen]);

      CoopMatUse is one of gl_MatrixUseA, gl_MatrixUseB, and gl_MatrixUseAccumulator.

      When CoopMatUse is gl_MatrixUseA,

        SrcEltTy must be one of float32_t, float16_t, uint8_t, and int8_t.

        DstEltTy must be either SrcEltTy or uint32_t.

>         DstVecLen is 8 if DstEltTy is uint32_t, and NumCols if SrcEltTy == DstEltTy.

Author: done. thanks.

        NumRows must be gl_SubgroupSize or a specialization constant

        NumCols is 8, 16, 32, and 32 when SrcEltTy is float32_t, float16_t,

>         uint8_t, and int8_t, respectively.  Or it is a specialization constant.

Author: done. thanks !!!

        The function stores the i-th row of the cooperative matrix into 'vec' of
        the invocation with gl_SubgroupInvocationID == i.

      When CoopMatUse is gl_MatrixUseB,

        SrcEltTy must be one of float32_t, float16_t, uint8_t, and int8_t.

        DstEltTy must be either SrcEltTy or uint32_t.

        DstVecLen is 8 if DstEltTy is uint32_t, and NumRows if SrcEltTy == DstEltTy.

        NumRows is 8, 16, 32, and 32 when SrcEltTy is float32_t, float16_t,
        uint8_t, and int8_t, respectively. Or, it is a specialization constant.

        NumCols must be one of gl_SubgroupSize, gl_SubgroupSize/2, or gl_SubgroupSize/4,
        or a specialization constant.

        The function stores the i-th column of the cooperative matrix into 'vec' of
        the invocation with gl_SubgroupInvocationID == i if i is less
        than the matrix's column. For those with gl_SubgroupInvocationID that is
        greater than or equal to the matrix's column, the return value is undefined.

      When CoopMatUse is gl_MatrixUseAccumulator,

        SrcEltTy must be one of uint32_t, int32_t, float32_t, and float16_t.

        DstEltTy must be either SrcEltTy or uint32_t.

>         DstVecLen is one of 64, 32, 16 and 8.

Author: This is for gl_MatrixUseAccumulator . In this case, invocation 'i' gets the i-th row of the matrix.

The requirement derives from the requirements for the "N" values of cooperative matrices.
So, I would say it is an intrinsic restriction.

>         DstVecLen is one of 64, 32, 16 and 8.

Reviewer: Then I think it should say:
```suggestion
        DstVecLen must be one of 64, 32, 16 and 8.
```
I wasn't sure if this was the best way of specifying the restrictions given that you also say that DstVecLen must be equal to NumCols, which must be a factor of the subgroup size. It's not wrong, there are just quite a few overlapping constraints that are written as applying to different values.

>         DstVecLen is one of 64, 32, 16 and 8.

Author: Thanks much !! fixed.

        void extractSubArrayQCOM(EltTy srcArr[SrcLen], int start_index, EltTy dstArr[DstLen]);

      EltTy must be one of uint32_t, int32_t, float32_t and float16_t.

      start_index must be non-negative, otherwise behavior is undefined.
      (start_index + DstLen) must be no greater than SrcLen, otherwise behavior is undefined.

      The function copies the DstLen values from srcArr starting from start_index
      to dstArr.  Equivalently, it is translated to

      for (i in [0, DstLen) ) dstArr[i] = srcArr[start_index + i];

    At the end of 8.X, Cooperative Matrix Functions, add the following cooperative conversion functions.

      The vectorToCoopmatQCOM function is used to construct a cooperative matrix cooperatively
      using arrays from invocations in a subgroup.

        void vectorToCoopmatQCOM(SrcEltTy vec[SrcVecLen], coopmat<DstEltTy, gl_ScopeSubgroup, NumRows, NumCols, CoopMatUse> cm);

      CoopMatUse is one of gl_MatrixUseA, gl_MatrixUseB, and gl_MatrixUseAccumulator.

      When CoopMatUse is gl_MatrixUseA,

        DstEltTy must be one of float32_t, float16_t, uint8_t, and int8_t.

        SrcEltTy must be either DstEltTy or uint32_t.

>         SrcVecLen is 8 if SrcEltTy is uint32_t, and NumCols if SrcEltTy == DstEltTy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        SrcVecLen must be 8 if SrcEltTy is uint32_t, or NumCols if SrcEltTy == DstEltTy.
```
Not sure why I missed this one. Sorry.

        NumRows must be a constant expression no greater than gl_SubgroupSize or a specialization constant expression.

        NumCols must be 8, 16, 32, and 32 for float32_t, float16_t, int8_t, and uint8_t,
        respectively, or it must be a specialization constant.

        The function constructs a cooperative matrix cooperatively in such a way that 'vec'
        from the i-th invocation (i.e., invocation with gl_SubgroupInvocationID == i) goes
        to the i-th row of the resulting matrix.

        When NumRows is smaller than gl_SubgroupSize, the source arrays from invocations
        [NumRows .. gl_SubgroupSize) are ignored. For example, given gl_SubgroupSize
        == 64, if NumRows == 32, the source arrays from invocations [32 .. 64) are ignored,
        and if NumRows == 16, those from invocations [16 .. 64) are ignored.

      When CoopMatUse is gl_MatrixUseB,

        DstEltTy must be one of float32_t, float16_t, uint8_t, and int8_t.

        SrcEltTy must be either DstEltTy or uint32_t.

>         SrcVecLen is 8 if SrcEltTy is uint32_t, and NumRows if SrcEltTy == DstEltTy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        SrcVecLen must be 8 if SrcEltTy is uint32_t, or NumRows if SrcEltTy == DstEltTy.
```
